True to its name, only Oracle seemed to
see this coming.
>> Oracle is having its biggest jump since
1992.
>> What a blowout quarter for the software
company.
>> Maybe the stock of the year. And then
just days later,
>> Tik Tok's US operations are said to be
acquired by a consortium including
Oracle.
>> Oracle shares spike after it's named as
part of the consortium.
>> What was going on? This was an old
school enterprise tech firm tickling
investors in places only a flashy
startup normally reaches
>> because Oracle basically said that they
have almost half a trillion dollars of
contracts to be earned in the next few
years and that was a shocker.
>> Everyone was modeling maybe you know
$150 billion.
>> It blew away analyst expectations. Now
Oracle's deeply connected to one of the
hottest social media properties on the
planet and behind one of the most
ambitious infrastructure projects on the
planet. Oracle had been written off as a
kind of IBM like company. This is an
incredible comeback story.
[Music]
>> Clearly we had an amazing start to the
year because
>> this is Saffricats.
Saffro Catz is the CEO and she's
considered by Wall Street to be one of
just the sharpest financial minds out
there, right? I mean, investors love
her.
>> Never more so than on September 9th when
she stunned Wall Street with Oracle's
quarterly earnings.
>> They showed a spike in bookings at a
scale which nobody had ever really seen
before. At the end of its fiscal first
quarter, Oracle's $455 billion forecast
was a four-fold increase over the same
period a year earlier. Infrastructure
revenue alone will grow 77% to $18
billion this fiscal year.
>> So, yeah, it was a good day to be Oracle
co-founder Larry Ellison, whose net
worth soared by $89 billion as a result,
almost enough to buy Starbucks or four
Lululemons or half a Qualcomm. That was
the biggest oneday gain ever recorded on
the Bloomberg billionaires index.
>> He must have been very pleased. Uh you
know online commentators were saying
okay it's never too old to grow right.
He he is 81year-old and briefly he is
the world's richest man.
>> He started 2025 in fourth place. It was
only in July that he passed Mark
Zuckerberg to move into second place.
Even though him and Elon Musk are vying
for first place. Ellison is also a major
investor in Musk's company. I'm very
close friends with Elon Musk and I'm a
big investor in Tesla.
>> Musk quickly regained the title, but
that this happened at all was a sign the
world had wildly underestimated
old-timer Oracle. Several things
converged to give Oracle the leg up of a
lifetime. And we're going to explain
what they are. But first, it's worth a
quick recap of Oracle's origin story and
what it is the company actually makes.
Larry Ellison founded Oracle in 1977,
just a year after the emergence of Apple
and two years after Microsoft.
>> In fact, he started working in a
government job at the CIA and that's how
he got the idea for Oracle.
>> It was a crowded decade on Silicon
Valley's maternity ward with engineers
in bellbottom jeans delivering startup
after startup to the sound of Prague
rock. Although it's possible Ellison
wasn't listening to anything quite as
fun. revenue in
>> he wanted to help businesses organize
their private data more efficiently.
>> Oracle really pioneered the modern
database.
>> In the early computer age, just heaps of
information were being created. There
needed to be a mechanism to keep track
of all that. Oracle's database was one
of the great cash cow businesses of all
time. And by 2025, Oracle's customers
included some of the world's best known
companies from AT&T to Walmart,
Accenture, and Volkswagen. Their vast
databases years, if not decades in the
making. Think of them like the biggest,
most sensitive and important folders of
spreadsheets ever known to humankind.
They're traditionally stored in what are
called on premises environments,
basically on servers in the offices or
facilities of the companies who own
them. This helps ensure privacy and
compliance.
>> A lot of these big companies started
using Oracle databases back in the 70s
or 80s and have never stopped.
>> All right, back to the present day. What
did investors think Oracle's plan is?
>> One is to sell influence AI models to
existing clients. The other one is to
basically sell cloud computing
capabilities or data centers. The
traditional leaders here, Amazon,
Microsoft, Google, they're strained for
capacity. And so Oracle figured, God, we
got all this cash flow. We're printing
billions off of our other businesses.
We're able to use that to underwrite our
growth into the cloud infrastructure.
>> But the plan surpassed external
expectations.
Here's how much Wall Street thought
Oracle's infrastructure as a service
business would generate over the next
few years. But this is what Oracle says
it now expects.
Some of these buyers like OpenAI have
committed to almost $300 billion in
compute that they want Oracle to provide
them over the course of multiple years.
>> It's deals like that that have really
prompted this investor enthusiasm around
Oracle. A lot of investors and analysts
are assuming that if it can do deals
like that, there will be more coming
down the line. In August, Nvidia CEO
Jensen Huang said he expected as much as
$4 trillion to be spent on AI
infrastructure by the end of the decade,
which brings us to Project Stargate.
A lot of folks started paying attention
to Oracle this year when they appeared
at the White House next to Sam Alman,
next to the president announcing this
project Stargate. This kind of ambitious
goal to invest hundreds of billions of
dollars in AI infrastructure. I think
this will be the most important project
of this era.
>> Project Stargate is a multi-year
investment.
>> It's a partnership between Oracle,
OpenAI, and SoftBank. And the goal is to
build data centers for AI across the US.
>> Open AI and Oracle have agreed to a
cloud contract, which is probably the
single largest contract in history, to
build out these massive data centers
across the US. Ground has already been
broken here in Abalene, Texas, but it's
just the first and its capacity is off
the scale.
>> Oracle and Open AI have agreed to about
4 1/2 gawatt of computing power. That's
about two Hoover dams. That's about four
nuclear reactors, right? I mean, this is
a sum of electricity that has never
really been considered for data centers.
>> And so, we come to another reason
investors are taking a fresh look at
Oracle. You look even better.
>> Thank you, Mr. President.
>> He seems to have developed a pretty
close relationship with the president.
Having that close proximity to the
president, it's a big positive,
particularly when it comes to deals and
issues of national security.
>> We have to backtrack till 2020 when
President Trump was trying to ban Tik
Tok, worrying about it being a national
security risk. And Tik Tok went to
Oracle and said, "Hey, we need to expand
our infrastructure." Oracle right now
pretty much runs the whole of Tik Tok US
assets and they've been doing that over
the past two plus years. And when it
comes to divesting from the Chinese
parent company, when it comes to getting
your data in a format that's going to
appease lawmakers, Oracle has had a big
part of this
>> and it's what led to this. Bloomberg
understands that Oracle and Silverlake
are among the companies that will
acquire Tik Tok's US operations.
>> US operations would be controlled by a
group that you know you've come to know
pretty well in Silicon Valley.
>> I feel like we'll be in the retirement
home one day uh analyzing this.
>> Well, if we are, at least it'll now be
grounded in a better understanding of
the reason for excitement around
Oracle's blowup numbers.
But let's be real, investments and
commitments of these scales, the risks
are huge. Among all the hyperscaler
providers, Oracle is the most leveraged
and is breeding the most cash.
>> Oracle, one of the world's great cash
cow businesses, has gone negative free
cash flow on this buildout. CEO Saffric
Cat said that capex was going to be 9
billion higher than expected and
investors were excited and the reason
for that is that the sooner they put the
capex in, the sooner they get these data
centers up and running, the sooner they
can recognize revenue from all these
customers. When you look at the $300
billion contract with open AI, there are
two questions. Question number one is uh
whether Oracle has the money to put all
the capital expenditure in to buy all
the NVIDIA chips and lease out the data
centers so that it can service Open AI.
On the other hand, does Open AI have the
$300 billion to shell out?
>> Open AAI has committed to giving Oracle
more money than it has in revenue today.
It's assuming that the current growth
rates continue. And so if anything goes
wrong there, this is a serious risk for
Oracle.
[Music]